--- Page 1 ---
 
 
Assignment  
Next-Word Prediction with Recurrent Neural Networks  
  
Objective:  
The goal of this assignment is to build, train, and evaluate a neural network capable of predicting the 
next word in a sentence.  
  
Next-word prediction is a foundational task in NLP . It's the technology that powers features like 
autocomplete in search engines, predictive text on your phone, and is a core component of more 
advanced Large Language Models (LLMs). The model learns the statistical relationships between words 
in a large body of text to predict which word is most likely to follow a given sequence of words.  
  
In this assignment, you will implement a model using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network, a 
type of Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) especially well-suited for learning from sequential data.  
  
Core Tasks 
Need to follow all these tasks):  
1. Dataset: You will use the classic novel "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" by Arthur Conan 
Doyle as your training corpus. It is large enough to learn interesting patterns but small enough 
to train on a standard laptop.  
a. Download Link: Project Gutenberg - The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes  
(Plain Text UTF-8)  
b. Your first task is to write a script to download and load this text file.  
2. Data Preprocessing: Automatically process the given dataset to be used for training, including 
but not limited to cleaning the data, tokenization and training sequence generation.  
3. Model Implementation: Build a neural network with an LSTM Layer and additional layers as 
required. An LSTM layer with 100
256 units is a good starting point.  
a. You should be able to explain the model architecture.  
b. Additionally,  implement an Attention Mechanism by adding an attention layer on top 
of your LSTM network. Describe and provide reasons why you chose a specific attention 
mechanism.  
4. Training: Compile the model using an appropriate loss function and an optimizer. Train the 
model on the sequences you generated. Monitor the loss and accuracy during training.  
5. Text Generation Function: Create a function that uses your trained model to generate new text. 
This function should:  

--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
 
I   If you have any questions or need any clarification regarding the assignment, please feel free to reach 
out to hr@abottstech.com, and we will get back to you accordingly 

